{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1404\cocoasubrtf470
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww25400\viewh16000\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 Thank you. I have to tell you being your senator was just the best experience. I loved representing our state, working with great members of Congress like Steve Israel. I want to say how much I admire Steve, what a strong tenacious advocate he has been for the people in his district, in our state and in our country. And we are going to really miss you. Thank you so much, Steve.\
\
I am happy to be here for any reason, but I love coming to Long Island. But this is an occasion to tackle a very serious issues that deserves as much attention as we can constantly bring to it. On average 90 people a day die from gun violence. That is 33,000 people a year. As Steve said, a very significant majority of both American citizens and gun owners in our country want to see commonsense gun safety measures passed. What stands in the way? What stands it the way is the most powerful lobby in Washington.\
\
Now there are other powerful lobbies, don't mistake that. But if you take all of them from Wall Street to drug companies to big oil, none is as powerful and intimidating as the gun lobby because what they do is just make it clear to anyone who stands up against them in public life at any level from the county and city level to the federal level that they will pay a price, they will be just the object of a tremendous barrage of advertising, of online attacks and everything else that is designed to intimidate and, if necessary, defeat them if they stand up and say, "Hey, we can have commonsense gun safety measures consistent with the constitution. We did and we should and will again."\
\
So for me, this issue has been a high priority for many years, in part because I have spent too many hours listening to and meeting with families who have lost a loved one to gun violence. I remember very well as first lady going to Columbine High School in Colorado, and time and time again, more than I care to count, I have looked into the eyes and held the hands of people who ask why, how can we let this happen. Even though you will hear from some of the most courageous and persistent voices that you could find anywhere in just a few minutes, we need to add our voices to their voices. We cannot go on like this.\
\
If anything else were killing 33,000 people a year, we would be mobilized. Cars used to kill more people than they do now, and folks said we don't want to take anybody's car away, but what about seatbelts, what about airbags? Let's figure out what we're going to do to save lives.\
\
Instead, what the gun lobby has done is to block every possible avenue to doing that. Steve's right; the Brady Bill, which has prevented more than 2 million purchases that were prohibited under it was a very tough legislative battle. When Senator Sanders was in the House, he voted against the Brady Bill five times. I was very proud when my husband passed and signed the Brady Bill, and I'm very grateful that it has saved lives.\
\
And we have a very commonsense agenda. We want comprehensive background checks, and that means close the gun show loophole, close the online loophole, close what's called the Charleston loophole. Let me just say why it's called that. This is another feature that Senator Sanders voted for, and that was to limit the number of days that could be spent trying to conduct a background check. Now some background checks are quick and easy, but some, you have to try to gather up all the information.\
\
The killer in Charleston, a young man filled with racist hatred, went to buy a gun. At the end of the three days, the background check was not completed, but the seller had to sell him a gun. Within 24 hours they found he should have been prohibited from buying that gun. He took that gun, he went to the church in Charleston, Mother Emanuel Church. It was a Wednesday, there was a bible study class going on. He went in, and, in fact, he was welcomed because the faithful people there, they were following their scripture, welcome the stranger. He was invited in. He sat there, he listened to the bible study, and then he murdered nine people. So we have to close that loophole.\
\
And we also have to reverse the gift that was given to the gun lobby with the passage of a law that grants them special immunity from the general responsibility of showing reasonable care in making and selling products. That is the rule for every other business that makes every other thing and sells it in our country. It's a rule that is rooted in centuries of legal jurisdiction and cases. The thinking is we do have a duty to the general public not to be negligent, not to be reckless, not to be irresponsible. I voted against that. Then-Senator Obama voted against it. Senator Sanders voted for it, and to this day he has defended it repeatedly and persistently.\
\
When challenged on his gun stances, he frequently says, "Well, I represent Vermont. It's a small, rural state. We have no gun laws." Here's what I want you to know. Most of the guns that are used in crimes and violence and killings in New York come from out of state. And the state that has the highest per capita number of those guns that end up committing crimes in New York come from Vermont. So this is not, oh, no, I live in a rural state, we don't have any of these problems. This is, you know what, it's easy to cross borders. Criminals, domestic abusers, traffickers, people who are dangerously mentally ill, they cross borders, too. And sometimes they do it to get the guns they use.\
\
This has to become a voting issue for those of us who want to save lives. And I'm going to keep working on it and talking out about it. I know the odds. I know how tough it is. But I also know that if more people stand up and speak out, as these panelists are doing, then the vast majority of Americans will agree with us, that, yes, there can be constitutionally permissible restraints. And I want to add [_]. You now have laws in our country prohibiting the Centers for Disease Control which conducts research on public health problems that cause death or injury for even examining what could be done in order to keep guns out of the wrong hands.\
\
That doesn't suggest to me that this is a very confident position that the gun lobby holds. Anytime anyone tries to suppress information, to stop research, I have to ask to ask what are they afraid of. And what they're afraid of is there are answers that we could work together to implement. So I am honored to be here with all of you and to hear from each of these panelists who will in her own way and words tell you what it's been like for them. I want you to have the opportunity to hear their stories, because I want you to really help me not just in this campaign, but if I'm so fortunate enough to be president, to really help me make this the kind of voting issue it deserves to be in our country.}